
                     AVR Application Binary Interfaces


This document collects the AVR ABI specifications that can be found in the
communities.

1. Data types
   char is 8 bits
   int is 16 bits
   long is 32 bits
   long long is 64 bits
   float and double are 32 bits (the only supported floating point format)
   pointers are 16 bits (function pointers are word addresses, to allow
                         addressing up to 128K program memory space)

   There is a -mint8 option (see Options for the C compiler avr-gcc) to
   make int 8 bits, but that is not supported by avr-libc and violates C
   standards (int must be at least 16 bits).  It may be removed in a
   future release. 

2. Registers

   Call-used registers (r18-r27, r30-r31):
   May be allocated by gcc for local data.  You may use them freely in
   assembler subroutines.  Calling C subroutines can clobber any of them
   - the caller is responsible for saving and restoring.

   Call-saved registers (r2-r17, r28-r29):
   May be allocated by gcc for local data. Calling C subroutines leaves
   them unchanged.  Assembler subroutines are responsible for saving and
   restoring these registers, if changed.  r29:r28 (Y pointer) is used as
   a frame pointer (points to local data on stack) if necessary.  The
   requirement for the callee to save/preserve the contents of these
   registers even applies in situations where the compiler assigns them
   for argument passing.

   Fixed registers (r0, r1):
   Never allocated by gcc for local data, but often used for fixed
   purposes: 
   r0 - temporary register, can be clobbered by any C code (except
        interrupt handlers which save it), may be used to remember
        something for a while within one piece of assembler code
   r1 - assumed to be always zero in any C code, may be used to remember
        something for a while within one piece of assembler code, but must
        then be cleared after use (clr r1). This includes any use of the
        [f]mul[s[u]] instructions, which return their result in r1:r0.
        Interrupt handlers save and clear r1 on entry, and restore r1 on
        exit (in case it was non-zero). 

3. Function call conventions:
   Arguments - allocated left to right, r25 to r8.  All arguments are
               aligned to start in even-numbered registers (odd-sized
               arguments, including char, have one free register above
               them).  This allows making better use of the movw
               instruction on the enhanced core.  If too many, those that
               don't fit are passed on the stack. 
   Return values - 8-bit in r24 (not r25!), 16-bit in r25:r24, up to 32
                   bits in r22-r25, up to 64 bits in r18-r25.  8-bit
                   return values are zero/sign-extended to 16 bits by the
                   called function (unsigned char is more efficient than
                   signed char - just clr r25).  Arguments to functions
                   with variable argument lists (printf etc.) are all
                   passed on stack, and char is extended to int.
  Return address - Note that AVR is an 8-bit CPU, "push"/"pop"
                   instructions are handled at byte boundary.  Thus "ret"
                   instruction related return addresses (which is 16-bit
                   width) must be stacked in big-endian order.
